- [Instructor] When migrating to a new version of Java,
it's important to take
into consideration any third-party dependencies
that may be used by an application.
It's possible that these dependencies
are not compatible with your target Java version.
In that case, you will most likely need
to upgrade or replace those dependencies.
If we look at the HplusSportApiApplication,
we'll see within the pom.xml file
that we're using a pretty dated version of Spring Boot.
In fact, if we navigate to our Package Explorer
and launch the application,
we're going to get some console output
that is a little concerning.
So here within the console output,
you'll see that we are being warned,
regarding reflective access
that is occurring in this version of Spring.
Now, in a future release of Java,
it's possible that our application
will not work because of this reflective access in Spring.
So the time to fix this is now,
while we're performing this migration.
Let's go ahead and we'll stop the application
and then we're going to navigate to our pom.xml file.
Now, if you've ever used Spring Boot,
you know it's really easy to upgrade your version of Spring.
All we need to do is change the version
of the spring-boot-starter-parent artifact
and that will have a cascading effect
on all of Spring's dependencies within our application.
Now, currently, we're using version 1.0.2.
And we're going to upgrade that to version 2.3.0.
Okay, with those changes in place,
let's go ahead, we'll save our application.
And then the application will begin to build
using the updated version of the libraries.
And you'll notice that introduced some problems
within our unit tests.
So let's hop in and take a look
at the ProductServiceTest
and within this class, we're getting an error
on the SpringApplicationConfiguration annotation
and that's because this annotation no longer exists
within this version of Spring.
Let's go ahead and flip our unit test over
to use the new SpringBootTest annotation,
which is used to set up and configure our unit tests.
And to do that, we just add the classes element
and then we point to our main application class,
which is the HplusSportApiApplication class.
So with that in place,
we can go ahead and save our unit test.
And then we had one other test that was broken.
And we see that this test has the same issue.
So I'm just going to put the same fix in place
and then I'll go ahead and save the unit test.
Now, let's talk a little bit about testing.
After you've migrated your source code
and you've upgraded any third-party dependencies,
you want to rigorously test your application
to make sure that it still functions properly.
So let's go ahead.
We can kick off one of these unit tests
by right clicking on it.
Going to Run As and then J Unit Test.
Here you'll see the application will launch the test
and we were able to successfully execute it.
Okay, so I feel pretty good about our tests.
At this point, let's also make sure
that the application runs using the new version of Spring.
So I'm going to right click on our main application class,
go to Run As and then Java Application.
And if we look at the console,
you'll notice that we have upgraded to the new version
of Spring and we no longer get the warnings,
regarding reflective access.
Excellent.
So updating these dependencies
in our project was the last step
in our Java 11 migration.
At this point,
we could confidently release the system to production.
We would just need to ensure
that the production environment had Java 11 installed.
So great work on completing a successful Java migration
and the course project.